>> Josh Long: First things first, if
you're on a Mac or on a Unix of some sort,
including Cygwin or Linux Subsystem for
Windows Subsystem for Linux rather.
Then I recommend you use something called
SDKman to manage your JVM versions.
SDKman is a great tool for
managing JVM infrastructure.
It's like a package manager.
So I can install Kotlin and
Java and Graalvm and so on.
So SDKman IO.
Here you go.
This is very common in the Java ecosystem.
It's a software development kit manager.
You just pipe this straight to Bash.
What could go wrong?
It'll be fine.
Probably right?
Pipe that straight to Bash,
let it set up everything for you.
It'll in turn install
a package manager called SDK.
Okay, so let's, that's your first thing.
So you can say SDK list Java, right?
And then you can see it down here.
It shows all the different
JDK versions out there.
Remember, one of the things that's so
interesting about the Java ecosystem is
that there's no one true
distribution of Java, right?
Even in the Python world, for example, or
in the Node world they have Bun, Deno and
node, right?
That's three.
In Java we have 30.
At least these are all different
versions of different JDKs and
all these are different vendors.
Zulu, Tencent, Temarin, Semru.
So these are all different
implementations of the open source code.
Some of them are clean
room reimplementations,
some of them are value added
distributions on top of OpenJDK, okay?
The one we're gonna be using is actually a
value added distribution on top of OpenJDK
called Graalvm Community Edition.
You can also use the Oracle.
This is not open source, but it is free.
And as far as I understand, I could be
wrong, but as far as I understand this is
usable in any context where
you would otherwise use this.
Except you can't give away the runtime for
this.
But since it's used to
create native images,
you're not giving away the runtime anyway.
So, so graalvm24graalce so
if you want to install that,
you say SDK install Java24graal CE
once you've got SDK installed.
So you'll do that.
I've already got it installed, and
then if you want to say SDK default
Java24 Graal CE that'll make it
the global operating system wide default.
So when you do Java minus version,
there you go,
you should see something like that.
There's a bunch of things that I
think are just worth understanding
that are germane to any Java programmer,
not just a spring developer.
And I want to talk about some of those
things right now in more depth, right.
We did a speedrun just a minute ago,
we did a speedrun looking at
a few of these different things.
We didn't really talk about them.
I just wanted you to see what
the effect of having it all set up and
moving quickly can be.
A few minutes to get something that is
talking to a database that statically
compiled, self deployed, observable,
has an HTTP endpoint, talks to an ORM.
It's like, what was it, less than 10 lines
of Java code to get all that working and
some configuration details for
your data source.
That's all well and good, but
I know what I'm doing and
I know how these parts come together.
We're going to walk through all those
things in detail in the spring layer.
But right now I want to look at some of
the things that were relevant before we
even got started,
before we even get to the spring code.
I mentioned SDKman.
One of the things I love about SDKman is
that it gives you the ability to manage
versions of your SDK.
So I'm using, if you look at this,
I'm using Java SDK,
Java SDK list, Java rather.
You can see it says I'm using
GraalVM Community Edition 24 Graal CE.
So if you do SDK install,
Java 24 Graal CE,
you'll get that version installed as well.
And then you say SDK default Java 24 gral
CE and you'll get that same version,
made it globally available
on your operating system.
One of the things I love about that though
is you can see like a bit of trivia.
Who knows what the most
popular JDK distribution is?
I read last year, and
I don't know if this is true still, but
I read that it's actually
Amazon's Corretto.
So Amazon has a JVM distribution
that they provide on top of aws.
Of course, that's what our shop uses.
Yeah, and it's so very, very, very.
I mean, I don't know what they do to it.
It's just, it just happens to be
the default it's the default used in so
many places.
So that by dint of having been so
installed, it's already the most widely
used distribution, which is pretty
amazing if you think about it.
But nonetheless there's no
reason they're all compatible.
There's no reason you couldn't take
code that's compiled against graalvm and
then run it on Amazon or vice versa.
So we have a bunch of different
distributions and as you move from
one project to another, you might even
have different ranges of versions.
Like you might have GraalVM, but
you're using Java 17 and using Java 21 and
using Java 24.
You might have different
distributions proper.
You might have Amazon Coretta over
there and you might have OpenJDK,
java.net over here, whatever.
And so what you want is a nice
tool to make it easy to manage and
move around with all of them.
One that I actually quite like
as well is also Liberica.
They have everything.
They have graalvm support,
they have Project crack.
We'll get into that in a little bit here.
Support crac, coordinated Restore at
Checkpoint, they have support for
javafx, they have all this extra
stuff on top of their distribution.
So there's Liberica and Liberica Nik.
Okay, but for now, just keep it simple.
Use GraalVM.
There's different distributions here.
These are proprietary.
I think I could be wrong.
These are not the OpenJDK distributions.
These are the proprietary
packagings of OpenJDK.
Some extra stuff right from Oracle.
And there's just, I mean, just a lot of
them, A lot of them are just available.
So let's say you're moving around from
project to project and you want people to
be using the right version of Java
when they go to your project, okay?
So you can do SDK env init in
the folder where you want this managed.
I hit that.
I did that.
And it created this file
here called stkman rc.
So that's now in this folder here, stkmnrc
and it says Java equals 24 graalce.
Sorry, when you set up SDK, man.
Now if I'm, let's say I do SDK list Java,
I'm going to switch to
a different version of Java.
Now I'll switch to.
Which one do I have installed?
Do I have anything?
Okay, here I'll use Java 24 open.
Okay, so
I'm going to say SDK default Java 24 open.
So that's now my operating system
wide open version of Java.
If I go here,
you can see it's just Java 24 now.
And it says there's nothing
about Graalvm in there, right?
So if I go now to the front end
Masters spring boot course.
You can see now it's switched
automatically to graalvm.
So I do Java within this folder and
now it says graalvm.
So that's very, very convenient.
Now you can put that in version control.
What we want to support is that
git clone run lifestyle right?
I want people to be able to get
your code CD into the directory
type idea pom XML and start working.
They should have all the sort
of infrastructure via docker,
they should have the versions of the JVM
infrastructure managed by sdkman.
And they should be able to open it up
in their IDE of choice without having
to import or configure or check in
the IDE droppings, the IDE config files,
you want your build file and
that's it, okay?
So I'm going to go SDK default Java.
That's me, right?
But now that I've added this SDKman.
So that's SDKman.
I quite like that a lot, right?
Sdkman is super useful for
making sure people can get your code.